# Terrain Types

- **Openways**: Openways are old sections of the Underdark that feature a lots of large, open corridors and expansive caverns. They are the preferred pathways of navigating through the Underdark. they are relatively easy to navigate, and both food and water tend to be simple enough to find. Encounters tend to be rarer, as most creatures know that large groups use the openways to travel. 
- **Stoneways**: Stoneways are densely-packed, twisting corridors that rise and fall in height. they are harder to navigate because of the twisting nature, although foraging for food and finding shelter is easier. Encounters are much mor common, as most underdark creatures know these spaces hace plentiful shelter and food, and predators come seeking those that seek to take advantage of this.
- **Forgeways**: Forgeways are very new portions of the Underdark (On a geological scale, at least): they are new-formed from purple worms eating or vulcanism, if from the latter, one can find stone that is often sharp with obsidian and other volcanic byproducts. This also means they are often ore-rich environments for local folk who mine. They are extremely difficult to navigate, with few dependable direct routes, and they tend to be scarce of food or water. Encounters are rare due to this.
- **Fungus Forests**: The forests of the underdark are vast, wondrous landscapes of strange mushrooms, lichens, molds, and other dark-dwelling life forms. Because of the way this life proliferates over itself, getting through fungal forests is incredibly difficult, requiring not just puzzling through twisting paths, but actually  hacking new pathways out of growth. In contrast, they are incredibly easy to find food and water in; this, of course, also means that a great many predators and other monsters come seeking within their spaces, seeking easy prey.